---
title: "CoDa-4DGS: Dynamic Gaussian Splatting with Context and Deformation Awareness for Autonomous Driving"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: 
excerpt: 'Rui Song<sup>*</sup>, **Chenwei Liang<sup>*</sup>**, Yan Xia, Walter Zimmer, Hu Cao, Holger Caesar, Andreas Festag, Alois Knoll'
date: 2025-06-25
venue: 'ICCV'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.06744'
slidesurl: 'https://rruisong.github.io/publications/CoDa-4DGS/'
citation: 
teaser_gif: '/images/coda-4dgs.gif'
---

Dynamic scene rendering opens new avenues in autonomous driving by enabling closed-loop simulations with photorealistic data, which is crucial for validating end-to-end algorithms. However, the complex and highly dynamic nature of traffic environments presents significant challenges in accurately rendering these scenes. In this paper, we introduce a novel 4D Gaussian Splatting (4DGS) approach, which incorporates context and temporal deformation awareness to improve dynamic scene rendering. Specifically, we employ a 2D semantic segmentation foundation model to self-supervise the 4D semantic features of Gaussians, ensuring meaningful contextual embedding. Simultaneously, we track the temporal deformation of each Gaussian across adjacent frames. By aggregating and encoding both semantic and temporal deformation features, each Gaussian is equipped with cues for potential deformation compensation within 3D space, facilitating a more precise representation of dynamic scenes. Experimental results show that our method improves 4DGS's ability to capture fine details in dynamic scene rendering for autonomous driving and outperforms other self-supervised methods in 4D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. Furthermore, CoDa-4DGS deforms semantic features with each Gaussian, enabling broader applications.
